---
layout:     post
title:      On Building Symbols
date:       2015-01-28 12:31:19
categories: retrospective
summary:    "When I was freelancing as an Apple/tech blogger a couple years ago, I has been writing a lot of iOS & OS X app reviews (in Russian). It was always interesting for me to learn in detail about Apple ecosystem and spread the word about all these awesome apps developers are building.
<br><br>
One thought kept following me though, that simply talking about other people’s work is not something that I want to do forever and that journaling/blogging is not the field where I want to build my career. I knew I should try to build an app myself and the sooner I start doing that, the better. However, I didn’t have any programming experience back then and everyone was saying that learning iOS development straight off would be pretty hard. It seemed like a black magic to me at the moment."
---

When I was freelancing as an Apple/tech blogger a couple years ago, I has been writing a lot of iOS & OS X app reviews (in Russian). It was always interesting for me to learn in detail about Apple ecosystem and spread the word about all these awesome apps developers are building. 

One thought kept following me though, that simply talking about other people’s work is not something that I want to do forever and that journaling/blogging is not the field where I want to build my career. I knew I should try to build an app myself and the sooner I start doing that, the better. However, I didn’t have any programming experience back then and everyone was saying that learning iOS development straight off would be pretty hard. It seemed like a black magic to me at the moment.

It was the Christmas eve of 2012 and I didn’t know what to do, so I’ve asked for advice some Polish guy named Radek who happened to be a young OS X developer behind Tadam app (which I was reviewing back then) and who later became one of my favorite friends. He was kind enough to describe his learning journey in detail and suggested me to do some “real-world” Web programming using something like PHP and then learn iOS development. 

It’s not what I wanted to hear, so the advice was simply ignored.

My main goal for the 2013 was to build an iOS app and release it to the App Store by the end of the year. In January, I started reading The Big Nerd Ranch’s Objective-C guide book and watching Lynda.com’s courses on the language. After finishing that, I quickly moved to reading The Big Nerd Ranch’s iPhone development book and watching CS193p Stanford courses via iTunes U.

I has been studying iOS development almost every day, for a couple hours during the evenings, because I still worked as a freelance blogger and has been studying in high school. Five months later, I had a general idea on how to make fairly simple iOS apps, so I started thinking about my first real project. 

I wanted to make something simple, yet useful. Because I’ve been blogging about iOS apps a lot, I thought I knew what makes great apps so great. After some thinking, I came up with the idea of making an iOS version of “Special Characters” palette you have on your Mac.

It seemed like a reasonably easy thing to do and a quick App Store search revealed that all present apps in this category were not that good — they were either not updated for too long or cluttered with ads or just ugly.

Without further ado, I’ve started developing the app in the end of April. The process was quite challenging and frustrating at times, but with the help of awesome StackOverflow community, I’ve had a working version in two months or so. 

The app was universal (iPhone & iPad) and had pretty basic features — you choose one of the categories, find the symbol you need and copy it to the clipboard, then simply paste it in another app. It also allowed you to switch to the so-called HTML mode and copy a Unicode representation of the symbol. Favorites and Recently Used symbols were there too.

I have had high hopes for the app, imagining lots of downloads and great reviews on popular Apple-related blogs like MacStories. 

...

That’s how [Symbols](http://symbols.khanov.com/) app was born, for the second time.

